the thing about Pro Jared I do find it
shameful the cavalcade of really callow
judgemental hostile evil voices that
have stepped up to keep scorn of the guy
and what we need to kind of draw
conclusions about is not you know the
breakup of Pro Jared's marriage but the
the extent to which he's an example of
someone who devoted his life to fantasy
rather than reality and you know what
reality it's an acquired taste for the
first several years of being a hermit I
could and would play video games from
the moment I woke up until I went back
to sleep I have hundreds of books on
various subjects that have downloaded
over the years and yet I have never read
a single one even if I want to I can't
for some reason pathetic right sometimes
I wonder if I've done some kind of
damage to my brain due to gaming all
those years that I spent not using my
brain it's the 21st century and I don't
know which one is more of a problem that
people in the decadent West have no
sense of shame or the journalists have
no sense of journalism YouTube star
extraordinaire
Pro Jared um I can't even say he was
caught cheating on his wife he came out
on Twitter and an analyst the his wife
we're going to get divorced and in
retaliation his wife complained also on
Twitter that he had been sleeping with
another woman nobody wants to have any
shred of dignity in discussing or
reporting the story I didn't see a
single article that even tried to
fact-check claims to the level of
finding the web sites being alluded to
or finding the screenshots being alluded
to I didn't see any source pressing
beyond the level of reporting rumour and
innuendo on Twitter as fact he was
promising me that he was committed to
our relationship at the time and
promising her her that he was breaking
up with me yes I cheated and I'm okay
with that that's why my final rating for
this is a broken marriage out of 10 Pro
chair
just kept telling all these different
girls that him and his wife were in an
open relationship and he was sending
them the banana picks it is wrong it's
one if it's wrong - it's morally and
ethically wrong 3 you are a male or
female figure taking advantage of your
power in that situation and influence to
take advantage of somebody to get
something that you want for your own
personal satisfaction and that's wrong
now obviously people started attacking
the alleged side hoe known as Holly
Conrad Holly Conrad responded by saying
this I understand some poop is going
down on the Internet if you want to
believe a hyperbolic statement from
someone you don't know on the internet
with no previous background information
and use it to demonize strangers so be
it that statement from the alleged side
ho makes it sound like you know she
didn't do anything wrong this guy
literally had the aragorn of a wife and
then downgraded to a Smeagol like take
this into account this is what we're
dealing with right here's what he looks
like
this is who he was with and then he done
graded to that there's like wow man are
you are you a clown are you dumb no if
you'll excuse me I need to delete some
pictures of myself playing naked unless
you want to see him
no delete the delete the pro Jarrod
please
you guys might have figured this out
this is the first time you've seen the
foot the stickers on the back of my my
computer these were put here by my
daughter she's now six years old so
these are the stickers up for choosing
in the arrangement of her choosing
decorating my computer and I do that you
know I use this computer in public this
is my laptop I also got a desktop you
know if I'm sitting in a library and you
know some middle-aged woman wants to hit
on me it's a pretty strong indication
this means a lot more than a wedding
ring on your finger you think about guys
say they're worth over a guy's fair that
could mean anything
he's got he's got his kids stickers out
of the computer I'm not even saying this
discourages women from hitting on me
it's just just a little bit of a barrier
to entry they're just a little hurdle to
get over any woman young old middle age
you who wants to express injures to me
know what they're getting into divorced
father of one okay there will still be
from for the right woman not bad but
think some kind of refined taste uh look
the thing about Pro Jared I do find it
shameful the cavalcade of really callow
judgemental hostile evil voices that
have stepped up to heap scorn on the guy
and who are pretending as if they had
some higher expectations because who is
pro Jared he does you know he plays
video games and and gives his opinions
about them it is shameful the kind of
behavior you see people kind of
reverting to a small-town witch-hunt
mentality when it's just revealed that
this guy was allegedly cheating on his
wife and that what's being said about it
was in the context of his wife being
understandably you know heartbroken and
furious you know in this moment but you
know sometimes people say things they
might later reconsider or you know
sometimes the role of journalism is not
to report rumor and innuendo on Twitter
as facts but with all that aside I think
the God rest we got to talk about here
is fantasy versus reality and I think
that is part of what's bad about people
playing video games as children people
being playing video games as fully grown
adults and you know in terms of this
fantasy vs. reality thing part of what
got Pro Jared in trouble just like a
famous US congressman
Anthony Weiner was precisely that he
wasn't pursuing real relationships with
real people he was pursuing nude
photographs for real people or the
internet now look I understand a
photograph is a real photograph but I
think this really does reflect the
underlying malaise of our time that you
get people who are pic collectors people
as their hobby at people as their form
of social life and sexuality are doing
what Pro Jared allegedly did but this
there are a lot of witness this which is
that he used his position the internet
to try to get people to join a snapchat
and join a tumblr and send him nude
pictures of themselves I don't think
nudity is evil I think that behavior is
counterproductive precisely because
you're passing up your chance for
something real relationship with real
people in the real world naked or
clothed for something that is always an
intellect ibly gonna be unreal so gonna
read to you here a letter I got from a
viewer this person just calls themselves
recluse writes in and says quote I have
a question I've been meaning to ask you
I figure perhaps this may be the best
place for it I dropped out of school as
a teenager at 15 and became a hermit I
have no education or employment history
I've been a recluse for well over a
decade's this person is thus over 25 I
can agree that video games are a
monumental waste of time especially for
a quote-unquote normal person
I think normal people can benefit from
your advice and the books you've
recommended in previous videos however
for someone like myself who is likely
going to be a reclusive loser for their
entire existence wouldn't everything I
do essentially be a waste of time since
I only interacted my parents and will
most likely never be a participant in
society never employed question one let
me just pause the mentioned the quality
of English writing here is already a lot
higher than most of the correspondence I
get I don't assume this is a person
who's really mentally disabled or
capable of job you know actually I don't
know I don't know kid you said you sound
employable so far
but no I know but come on obviously it's
a problem you dropped out of school at
15 and so on but I don't know based on
this letter is hope for you anyway if a
person is isolated and is going to
remain an isolated rascal recluse for
the rest of their existence is the value
you attribute to reading and learning
lesson that would be for more normal
person who was a participant in society
a bit more about me : for the first
several years of being a hermit I could
and would play video games from the
moment I woke up until I went back to
sleep as I've gotten older I can't do it
anymore for some reason I struggle to
play a game for even a few minutes that
doesn't mean that I do anything
productive I still waste time all day by
browsing various websites mmm anyway
look again you know maybe there's hope
at least you've developed an aversion to
something you used to be addicted to I
have hundreds of books on various
subjects that have downloaded over the
years and yet I have never read a single
one even if I want to I can't for some
reason pathetic right sometimes I wonder
if I have done some kind of damage to my
brain due to gaming all those years that
I spent not using my brain especially
during my youth when my brain was more
malleable or most valuable
I wonder how different I'd be if I'd
spent sixteen hours a day reading about
history learning languages mathematics
etc instead of playing video games
I don't regret being a recluse but I do
regret the time of spent as a recluse
would I have ended up feeling the same
way had I wasted my time on learning
history languages mathematics how to
play an instrument etc thank you for
reading my comment it's it's really hard
to draw a line between habit and who we
truly are you know that phrase creatures
of habit you know are you more or are
you less than the habits you cultivate
because of the passage of time your
habits come to cultivate you look point
1 don't give in to Golden Age thinking
don't think that your grandparents were
angels my grandparents generation were
addicted to sitting around a table
drinking beer smoking cigarettes and
playing cards playing bridge playing you
blank poker card games gambling normally
at least accompanied by alcohol and
cigarettes if drugs my grandparents
generation they were not they were not
angels and they had heroin and cocaine
and all those hard drugs - they probably
didn't tell you that they did but they
did their different slang terms of them
um you know the good old days were not
good
they were just old but I think what's
really worth reflecting on here
especially in the context of old pro
Jarrod you know being hauled over the
coals and criticized publicly in the way
that he has been is that these types of
entertainment whether video games
websites movies watching videos in the
internet I think they do lead people to
value things that are fantastic over
things that are real and Jared's life
wasn't just devoted to video games it
was also devoted to cosplay and anime
movies and cartoons and stuff stuff that
adults know they shouldn't be doing
doesn't even need to be said you know
you know any of the history books I read
would they be interesting if they were
fictional no if they were works of
fiction
they wouldn't matter you know I could
say the same about philosophy you know
any philosophy that ends up in the
fiction section rather than the
nonfiction section really doesn't matter
I mean you know there is ultimately a
difference between a documentary movie
and a an animated cartoon I mean you
know I think there is I'd say it all the
time I think there's some potential for
video games to be educational tools
especially for some language learning
and language practice is very little of
that going on but um you know I really
learned to resent when I was a child it
was partly my childhood had to do with
big corporations like Disney probably
just I deal with the spirit of the times
that educators parents and teachers had
I really learned to resent the constant
encouragement to dream and
imagine and find your entertainment in
the plaything so then why that's jostled
all the time as a child don't worry
about things that are real don't worry
about things that are true just be happy
just you know we were told stories both
verbally and from storybooks and you
know in terms of movies our Sean like
that was very virtuous for a child to
take great joy and playing with a mud
puddle or making mud cakes to make do
with little to not ask your parents to
buy toys but to instead use your
imagination just make things up make up
stories you know imagine that that
blocks our little people and you know
this kind of thing any children can do
that they can do that without being
encouraged to you know children can live
in lives of fantasy in the mind so on um
but yeah on a massive scale I think
what's most dangerous and what we need
to kind of draw conclusions about is not
you know the break-up of pro Jarrett's
marriage but the the extent to which
he's an example of someone who devoted
his life to fantasy rather than reality
and you know what reality it's an
acquired taste you know
entertaining films by Disney Corporation
are meant to be entertaining they're
designed to be entertaining they have a
happy ending or even if it's a tragedy
it's a neatly contrived tragic ending
and reality's not like that you know it
really you know it really takes some
time to appreciate the minor ironies of
the Cambodian Civil War really takes
some time to you know appreciate reading
the history of China in the 1970s or
history the United States the 1930s read
about the history of slavery is you know
we've been doing but you know what it is
rewarding it is interesting but boy it's
acquired taste it's it's very hard I was
just in my book review of numa's book
about ancient Rome and Greece talking
about how much reading you need to have
already done to have read that book
about ancient Athens in Rome or to enjoy
it but it's not passive when you're
reading that book you need to be almost
countering and refuting each argument as
they come up and stuff you need to be
thinking about the other parts the story
is leaving out
you know very active kind of dialogue
and you know God reading anything in
Chinese I spent all day today writing
Facebook messages back and forth in
Chinese to people it feels passive to me
now but Wow
yes yeah there's a real questionwhat
active versus passive and I can remember
many times from talking to people who
really didn't get it with me but
remember one guy he was Irish and he
said what I don't know what you mean
when you say you don't want to be
entertained so I was living in Thailand
allows that sounds like look I'm here to
do research me to do humanitarian work
I'm here motivated by these things
I'm not here to manage I don't want to
be entertained on interests it that's
stuff but he had he had never heard that
before because his whole perspective on
life was one of being devoted to
entertainment you know with the the only
constraint being earning enough money to
keep you know body and mind together
2019 I mean who's on Team fiction and
who's on Team nonfiction just look at
the number of viewers even for Pro
Jarrod's Channel versus any you know
nonfiction Channel and as I said at the
opening this video it's become somewhat
terrifying to me the extent to which
journalism even journalism has become
just another genre of fiction
[Music]